•

Constitutional requirements

•

Requirements of applicable federal and State law

In the event that the parties have not reached mutually agreeable terms within 30 calendar days
of commencement of negotiations, DAS PS may terminate negotiations and commence
negotiations with a next highest-ranking Proposer.
5.4.2 Contractor Selection Methodology
In the event multiple Price Agreements are awarded, Authorized Purchasers will use a secondary
selection process to determine from which Contractor to purchase.
Once the initial Price Agreement(s) are in place, an Authorized Purchaser may, from time to time,
issue a request for quotes from all the holders of Price Agreement(s) that are capable of
providing the needed training materials.
The request for quotes will specify the training materials needed, time periods for response,
evaluation criteria, including costs and any other issues applicable to the particular need. Upon
receipt of the quotes, Authorized Purchaser will conduct a BVA to determine the offer that best
serve(s) the needs of the Authorized Purchaser in the particular circumstance(s). Authorized
Purchaser will perform a Best Value Analysis (BVA) to determine which of the Contractors’
offer(s) best serve(s) the needs of the Authorized Purchaser in the particular circumstance(s).

SECTION 6: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
6.1 COMMITMENT TO DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION
The State of Oregon is committed to taking active steps toward increasing and promoting
diversity, equity, and inclusion values across procurement processes for minority, women, emerging
small, and service-disabled veteran owned businesses by reducing barriers to compete for and be
awarded state contracts. All interested businesses are encouraged to submit proposals for this
contracting opportunity.
6.2 CERTIFIED FIRM PARTICIPATION
Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) Chapter 200, DAS PS encourages the participation of small
businesses, certified by the Oregon Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity (“COBID”)
in all contracting opportunities. This includes certified small businesses in the following categories:
disadvantaged business enterprise, minority-owned business, woman-owned business, a business
that a service-disabled veteran owns or an emerging small business. DAS PS also encourages joint
ventures or subcontracting with certified small business enterprises. For more information, visit:
https://oregon4biz.diversitysoftware.com/FrontEnd/VendorSearchPublic.asp?XID=6787&TN=oregon
4biz
If the Price Agreement has potential subcontracting opportunities, the successful Proposer may be
required to submit a completed Certified Disadvantaged Business Outreach Plan (Attachment F)
prior to execution.
DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 25 of 27

6.3 GOVERNING LAWS AND REGULATIONS
This RFP is governed by the laws of the State of Oregon. Venue for any administrative or judicial
action relating to this RFP, evaluation and award is the Circuit Court of Marion County for the State of
Oregon; provided, however, if a proceeding must be brought in a federal forum, then it must be
brought and conducted solely and exclusively within the United States District Court for the District
of Oregon. In no event shall this Section 6.2 be construed as a waiver by the State of Oregon of any
form of defense or immunity, whether sovereign immunity, governmental immunity, immunity
based on the eleventh amendment to the Constitution of the United States or otherwise, to or from
any claim or consent to the jurisdiction of any court.
6.4 OWNERSHIP/PERMISSION TO USE MATERIALS
All Proposals are public records and are subject to public inspection after DAS PS issues the Notice of
Intent to Award. Application of the Oregon Public Records Law will determine whether any
information is exempt from disclosure.
All Proposals submitted in response to this RFP become the Property of DAS PS. By submitting a
Proposal in response to this RFP, Proposer grants the State a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable,
royalty-free license for the rights to copy, distribute, display, prepare derivative works of and
transmit the Proposal solely for the purpose of evaluating the Proposal, negotiating a Price
Agreement, if awarded to Proposer, or as otherwise needed to administer the RFP process, and to
fulfill obligations under Oregon Public Records Law (ORS 192.311 through 192.478). Proposals,
including supporting materials, will not be returned to Proposer, except in the case of Proposals that
were submitted late and rejected by DAS PS.
6.5 CANCELLATION OF RFP; REJECTION OF PROPOSAL; NO DAMAGES.
Pursuant to ORS 279B.100, DAS PS may reject any or all Proposals in-whole or in-part, or may cancel
this RFP at any time when the rejection or cancellation is in the best interest of the State or DAS PS,
as determined by DAS PS. Neither the State nor any State agency is liable to any Proposer for any
loss or expense caused by or resulting from the delay, suspension, or cancellation of the RFP or a
Contract/Price Agreement award, or the rejection of any Proposal.
6.6 COST OF SUBMITTING A PROPOSAL
Proposer shall pay all costs incurred in connection with its Proposal, including, but not limited to, the
costs to prepare and submit the Proposal, costs of samples and other supporting materials, costs to
participate in demonstrations, and costs associated with protests.
6.7 STATEWIDE E-WASTE/RECOVERY PROCEDURE
If applicable, Proposer shall include information in its Proposal that demonstrates compliance with
the Statewide E-Waste/Recovery Procedure #107-011-050_PR. Visit the DAS website
www.oregon.gov/das and use the search bar feature to locate the procedure.
6.8 RECYCLABLE PRODUCTS
Proposer shall use recyclable products to the maximum extent economically feasible in the
performance of the Services or Work described in this RFP and the subsequent Price Agreement.
DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 26 of 27

(ORS 279B.025)

DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 27 of 27

