4.12.2 Competitive Range Protest
Proposers excluded from a round may submit a Written protest of Competitive Range. Protests
must:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Be emailed to the SPC;
Reference the OregonBuys bid number S-10700-00007215;
Identify Proposer’s name and contact information;
Be sent by an authorized representative
State the reason for the protest; and
Be received within seven calendar days after issuance of the Notice of the Competitive Range
unless a different due date and time is specified in such notice.

DAS PS will address all protests within a reasonable time and will issue a Written decision to the
respective Proposer. Protests that do not include the required information may not be
considered by DAS PS.
4.13 RESERVED

SECTION 5: AWARD AND NEGOTIATION
5.1 AWARD NOTIFICATION PROCESS
5.1.1 Award Consideration
DAS PS, if it awards a Price Agreement, will award a Price Agreement to the highest-ranking
Responsible Proposer(s) based upon the scoring methodology and process described in Section
4. DAS PS may award less than the full Scope of Work described in this RFP.
5.1.2 Intent to Award Notice
DAS PS will notify all Proposers in Writing that DAS PS intends to award a Price Agreement to the
selected Proposer(s) subject to successful negotiation of any negotiable provisions.
5.2 INTENT TO AWARD PROTEST
5.2.1 Protest Submission
An Affected Proposer will have seven calendar days from the date of the Intent to Award notice
to file a Written protest.
Proposer is an Affected Proposer only if Proposer would be eligible for Price Agreement award in
the event the protest was successful and is protesting for one or more of the following reasons
as specified in ORS 279B.410:
•

All higher ranked Proposals are non-Responsive.

•

DAS PS has failed to conduct an evaluation of Proposals in accordance with the criteria or
process described in the RFP.

•

DAS PS abused its discretion in rejecting the protestor’s Proposal as non-Responsive.

DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 22 of 27

•

DAS PS’s evaluation of Proposal or determination of award otherwise violates ORS Chapter
279B or ORS Chapter 279A.

If DAS PS receives only one Proposal, DAS PS may dispense with the evaluation process and
Intent to Award protest period and proceed with Price Agreement Negotiations and award.
5.2.1.1 Protest Requirements
Protests must:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Be delivered to the SPC via email;
Reference the OregonBuys bid number S-10700-00007215;
Identify Proposer’s name and contact information;
Be signed by an authorized representative of Proposer;
Specify the grounds for the protest; and
Be received within seven calendar days of the Intent to Award notice.

5.2.2 Response to Protest
DAS PS will address all timely submitted protests within a reasonable time and will issue a
Written decision to the respective Proposer. Protests that do not include the required
information may not be considered by DAS PS.
5.3 APPARENT SUCCESSFUL PROPOSER SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
Proposer(s) who are selected for a Price Agreement award under this RFP will be required to submit
additional information and comply with the following:
5.3.1 Insurance
Prior to award, Proposer shall secure and demonstrate to DAS PS proof of insurance as required
in this RFP or as negotiated. Insurance Requirements are found in Exhibit B of Attachment A.
5.3.2 Taxpayer Identification Number
Proposer shall provide its Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and backup withholding status
on a completed W-9 form when requested by DAS PS or when the backup withholding status or
any other relevant information of Proposer has changed since the last submitted W-9 form, if
any.
5.3.3 Business Registry
If selected for award, Proposer shall be duly authorized by the State of Oregon to transact
business in the State of Oregon before executing the Price Agreement. Visit
http://sos.oregon.gov/business/pages/register.aspx for Oregon Business Registry information.
5.3.4 Responsibility Inquiry
Prior to award, Proposer shall be required to complete and submit Attachment G —
Responsibility Inquiry.
DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 23 of 27

5.3.5 Pay Equity Certification
If selected for award and the Price Agreement’s anticipated value exceeds $500,000 and
Proposer employs 50 or more full-time workers, Proposer shall submit to DAS PS a true and
correct copy of an unexpired Pay Equity Compliance Certificate, issued to the Proposer by the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services. For instructions on how to obtain the Certificate,
visit https://www.oregon.gov/das/Procurement/Pages/PayEquity.aspx.
ORS 279B.110(2)(f) requires that Proposer provide this prior to execution of the Price
Agreement.
5.3.6 Nondiscrimination in Employment
As a condition of receiving the award of a Price Agreement under this RFP, Proposer must certify
by its Signature on Attachment C - Proposer Information and Certification Sheet, in accordance
with ORS 279A.112, that it has in place a policy and practice of preventing sexual harassment,
sexual assault, and discrimination against employees who are members of a protected class. The
policy and practice must include giving employees a written notice that the policy both prohibits,
and prescribes disciplinary measures for, conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual
assault, or unlawful discrimination.
5.3.7 RESERVED
5.4 PRICE AGREEMENT NEGOTIATION
5.4.1 Negotiation
After selection of one or more successful Proposers, DAS PS may enter into Price Agreement
negotiations with the successful Proposer(s) who offer the range of Goods and Services
considered most advantageous to the State and ORCPP members. By submitting a Proposal,
Proposer agrees to comply with the requirements of the RFP, including the terms and conditions
of the Sample Price Agreement (Attachment A), with the exception of those terms listed below
for negotiation.
DAS PS intends to enter into a Price Agreement with the successful Proposer substantially in the
form set forth in Attachment A, Sample Price Agreement.
Following the selection of the apparent successful Proposer(s), DAS PS may agree to negotiate
changes to the negotiable provisions of the Sample Price Agreement listed below. However, DAS
PS is not required to make any changes and many provisions cannot be changed. Proposer is
cautioned that the State of Oregon believes modifications to the standard provisions constitute
increased risk and increased cost to the State.
Any Proposal that is conditioned upon DAS PS’ acceptance of any other terms and conditions
may be rejected. Any subsequent negotiated changes are subject to prior approval of the
Oregon Department of Justice.
DAS PS is willing to negotiate all items, except those listed below:
•

Choice of law

•

Choice of venue

DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 24 of 27

