1.2 SCHEDULE
The table below represents a tentative schedule of events. All times are listed in Pacific Time. All
dates listed are subject to change. N/A denotes that event is not applicable to this RFP.
Event

Date

Time

Pre-Proposal Conference

07/18/2024

1:00 PM

Questions / Requests for Clarification Due

07/15/2024

4:00 PM

Answers to Questions / Requests for Clarification
Issued (approx.)

07/19/2024

4:00 PM

RFP Protest Period Ends

7/8/2024

4:00 PM

Opening (Proposal Due)

07/31/2024

4:00 PM

Opening of Proposal

07/31/2024

4:00 PM

Presentations, Demonstrations, or Interviews

07/22/2024

11:00 AM

Issuance of Notice of Intent to Award (approx.)

08/16/2024

4:00 PM

Award Protest Period Ends

08/23/2024

4:00 PM

1.3 SINGLE POINT OF CONTACT (SPC)
The SPC for this RFP is identified on the Cover Page, along with the SPC’s contact information.
Proposer shall direct ALL communications related to any provision of the RFP ONLY to the SPC,
whether about the technical requirements of the RFP, contractual requirements, the RFP process, or
any other provision.

SECTION 2: AUTHORITY, OVERVIEW, AND SCOPE
2.1 AUTHORITY AND METHOD
DAS PS is issuing this RFP pursuant to its authority under ORS 279A.050 and OAR 125-246-0170(2).
DAS PS is using the Competitive Sealed Proposal method, pursuant to ORS 279B.060 and OAR 125247-0260. DAS PS may use a combination of the methods for Competitive Sealed Proposals,
including optional procedures: a) Competitive Range; b) Discussions and Revised Proposals; c)
Revised Rounds of Negotiations; d) Negotiations; e) Best and Final Offers; and f) Multistep Sealed
Proposals.
2.2 DEFINITION OF TERMS
For the purposes of this RFP, capitalized words are defined in OAR 125-246-0110, below, or in the
Sample Price Agreement.
1. Terminology specific to the OregonBuys system may be found at:
https://www.oregon.gov/das/ORBuys/Documents/RolesAndTermCrosswalk.pdf.

DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 6 of 27

“Agency” means executive branch agencies of the State of Oregon that are boards, commissions,
departments, or agencies whose costs are paid, in whole or in part, from funds held in the State
Treasury
“Authorized Purchaser” means any Agency of the State of Oregon, and any participant in the Oregon
Cooperative Purchasing Program (ORCPP) with appropriate purchasing authority under their
applicable statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
“Department of Administrative Services” or “DAS” means the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services.
“Department of Administrative Services, Procurement Services” or “DAS PS” means the Agency
with central procurement authority acting on behalf of the State of Oregon.
“Oregon Cooperative Purchasing Program” or “ORCPP” means the State of Oregon’s Cooperative
Purchasing Program. ORCPP members are authorized to use DAS PS statewide agreements. ORCPP
members include State Agencies not subject to DAS PS purchasing authority, cities, counties, school
districts, special districts, Oregon Forward Businesses (formerly Qualified Rehabilitation Facilities),
residential programs under contract with the Oregon Department of Human Services, United States
governmental agencies, and American Indian tribes or agencies.
“Agreement (s)” or "Price Agreement (s)" means the resulting agreement(s) between Contractor
and DAS PS under which Contractor(s) agree to hold prices, terms and conditions firm for a specified
period of time for the benefit of Authorized Purchasers.
2.3 OVERVIEW AND PURPOSE
2.3.1 Agency Overview and Background
DAS PS has authority to hold price agreements under which more than one Agency may order
goods and services, and for ORCPP members, under ORS 279A.050(7). DAS PS seeks to make a
wide variety of information security and cyber security training materials and services easily
available to Authorized Purchasers at a good value and under appropriate terms and conditions.
2.3.2 Purpose
The purpose of the RFP is to set in place one or more Price Agreements with one or more
vendors that provide Cybersecurity Awareness Training Services and Materials. State agencies
and local government partners will be able to access the state price agreements when
purchasing the options that are appropriate for their business needs.
2.4 SCOPE OF SERVICES
Contractor(s) awarded Price Agreement(s) resulting from the RFP will deliver Cybersecurity Training
Services and Materials that target diverse audiences. The State reserves the right to expand or
modify specific topics and modalities within this general area of knowledge to adequately address
Authorized Purchasers’ information security training needs.
Desired materials and services are described in more detail below. Proposers are encouraged to
provide any additional materials that would add value not requested or identified in this RFP.
DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 7 of 27

2.4.1 All Offered Goods and Services
2.4.1.1 Universal Access. All items and modalities must be accessible to persons with
disabilities. Materials and services designed with principles of universal access are
desired.
2.4.2 Training Subjects
Proposer must offer cybersecurity training services and materials that address one or
more of the specific subjects within this general area of knowledge, and that are
continuously updated by Proposer to remain up to date, accurate, and in alignment with
applicable regulatory requirements and best practices. Subjects within this general area of
knowledge include but are not limited to:
1. Cybersecurity Awareness Month Training and Materials. The State desires training and materials
specific to the annual Cybersecurity Awareness Month, consistent with current CISA and State of
Oregon initiatives. Proposer should ensure that annual content is current, and that it will provide
to multi and/or enterprise-wide organizations with time for the organizations to review before
disseminating materials.
2. Technical security training. The State desires technical security training services and materials,
customizable to suit Authorized Purchaser’s specific requirements and industry context.
Materials and sessions should be scalable to accommodate Authorized Purchaser’s staff size,
growth or reduction in the workforce, and changing technical needs over time.
2.1. Services should include tools and reports to measure the effectiveness of the technical
training offerings and provide detailed reporting on effectiveness to Authorized Purchaser.
3. Regulation-specific education. The State desires information security training and materials on
specific regulatory frameworks, such as:
3.1. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
3.2. Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards.
3.3. The Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).
2.4.3 Training Delivery Methods
Proposer must offer one or more of the following training content delivery methods. Each training
material and training delivery method must meet standards and industry best practices for
Information Technology and Cyber Security such as the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST).
The State desires Proposals from Proposers that provide content development for:
1. Video.
2. Printed materials.
3. eLearning modules.
4. Infographics.
5. Tutorials.
6. Gamification.
DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 8 of 27

7. In-person advanced training. Advanced training would be for topics such as the NIST
cybersecurity framework, application development, forensics, or other specialized advanced
training that may be offered as contractor-hosted events.
2.4.4 Learning Management System (LMS)
The State seeks Proposals that offer comprehensive online learning platforms for information
security training. If Proposer offers a hosted Learning Management System (LMS), then it is
expected to provide a seamless experience for users, and to offer ongoing support and
maintenance. Desired Services include:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Support to address any questions or concerns from administrators, and end users.
Support and maintenance of its services.
A method of tracking and monitoring requests for support.
System training and user support.
Integration with the State’s LMS platform, Workday.

2.4.5 Training Planning and Development Services
The State seeks Proposals that offer professional training assessment, planning, and content
development Services specific to cybersecurity awareness training services and materials for all
staff roles and levels of technical expertise within an organization. Desired Services include:
1. Assessment and Planning. The State seeks Services to assess the current cybersecurity
awareness and training materials within an organization, and assist with the planning of new
or updated cybersecurity awareness training and materials that cover essential
cybersecurity topics such as security culture, phishing, social engineering, password security,
data protection, etc.
2. Content Development. The State seeks Cybersecurity Awareness Training Services and
Materials content development services such as eLearning modules, videos, infographics,
and/or written resources. The State’s preferred method for all videos, tutorials, and
eLearning materials to be in the most current format compatible with industry standard
Learning Management Systems (LMS), including the State’s current LMS, Workday. Other
vendor hosted LMS methods may be acceptable.
2.4.6 Phishing Simulations
The State seeks Proposals that offer phishing simulations. Phishing simulations are expected to
include some or all of the following:
1. Customizable phishing templates to mimic various types of real-world phishing emails and
other social engineering techniques.
2. Flexibility to schedule phishing campaigns at specified intervals and adjust settings based on
user roles, departments, or other defined criteria.
3. Easy to use and customizable reporting for all phishing data, and multiple ways of sharing
these reports.
4. Customizable training content based on the nature of the simulated attack and the specific
vulnerabilities identified.
DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 9 of 27

5. A sophisticated simulation and training platform that can conduct automated phishing
simulations, with start and end dates, across multiple domains within an organization.
6. Customizable responses to users who report phishing emails including informative
messages, acknowledgment notifications, and educational content.
7. Customization based on the severity of the reported email, allowing appropriate feedback
and guidance to users.
8. A system that automatically delivers relevant training modules to users who fail or fall victim
to phishing simulations.
9. Customizable, brandable, automated notifications to users and their immediate
supervisor(s) with training assignment information along with reminders and prompts to
encourage timely completion of training.
10. The ability to track and report on the completion and performance of users in training
modules. Reporting should be easy to customize and include: completion of course by user,
date/time of completion, amount of time to complete, number of users in a particular
organization/domain enrolled in course, number of users in a particular
organization/domain enrolled in course that completed/started/not started course, percent
of completions of particular course in a date range, and percent of incomplete courses in a
date range.
2.4.6.1 Optional Phishing Simulation Features
The State seeks Proposals that offer phishing simulation services that also offer the following
features, to ease Authorized Purchasers’ administration of phishing simulation activities. This
section includes items listed on Attachment F – Optional Phishing Simulation Features; see
Section 3.4.5 for more information on submission of this attachment. These options of are
particular interest to the State:
1. Optional synchronization and Active Directory Integration (or similar). The State desires
phishing simulation services that support optional integration with Authorized Purchaser’s
existing Active Directory infrastructure for seamless user management and authentication.
Additional or alternative integration may be acceptable to the State. Integration is expected
to ensure synchronization of user profiles and groups to facilitate targeted phishing
simulations and training campaigns.
2. Optional listing for multiple tenant Microsoft 365 environments. The State desires phishing
simulation services that enable the customization of “allow-lists” to ensure that authorized
emails (containing links, attachments, QR codes and credential harvesting) and domains are
not flagged as potentially malicious in a multi-tenant MS365 environment. This element of
the Services should provide a user-friendly interface and knowledge base for administrators
to manage and update lists easily.
3. Optional single sign on (SSO). The State desires phishing simulation services that include as
an option the ability for Authorized Purchaser to enable SSO capabilities to streamline user
authentication and access to the phishing platform. This aspect of the services should
integrate with Authorized Purchaser’s existing SSO capabilities to facilitate a seamless login
experience for staff members, and include user training materials for SSO.
4. Optional Phishing Reporting Feature. The State desires phishing simulation services that
DAS Procurement Services, Version 4.5 March 31, 2023

Page 10 of 27

